but what does democracy really mean what
democracy really means is if you're a
vegan and you want to change the world
you have ways to do it other than
violence you have some better option I
don't even feel like like veganism has
to rely on animal rights you know I
think it has to rely on asking yourself
what what's the meaning of life what's a
meaningful life for me now whether
that's in terms of ecology or what have
you I remember many many years ago just
sitting at a table with a guy it was a
an all-you-can-eat buffet and so you
know everything I had was was vegan and
he had all these bones of dead animals
on his plate you know just sit there a
table aggressive to me I know it sounds
stupid to me that alone you know is
enough of a reason to be vegan I look at
the waist of that just the ugliness of
that and the decadence and the
self-indulgence for me I can't imagine
living at life with with bones apply
even if you don't love animals you don't
respect animals you don't believe in
animal rights to me veganism is a really
natural consequence of caring about
living a meaningful life
okay look so I mean you know uh what's
the future you're gonna get a diploma in
human rights gonna change the world
what's up I was reading about if you
hear what the mink someone let makes out
enough oh no see that you've had another
one those near you down in southern
Ontario he was in Brantford yeah I know
I know there's a lot of fur farming
there in southern Ontario but I haven't
heard about that case now 300 mink farms
in Canada like why they like who's
buying the fur I don't know so many
people are against for well I just
mentioned one of the funny things in our
history textbooks they always mention
really vaguely about how important the
fur trapping industry was and then they
just vaguely say and then it stopped
being important you know like then it
the economy just disappeared which is
true but it's true because of fur
farming that's why First Nations don't
trap for any more they can't get any
money out of it trapping for in the wild
isn't profitable because you have 300
mink farms or whatever and you know so
those those animals now live their whole
lives in a cage to be killed and died
for a for fur but that was the
historical transformation but i think i
think for you also in school fur fur
trapping fur farming is always presented
as this huge part of our national
history so great pride is that we built
this country on killing beavers you know
so yeah yeah that's also weird trip the
thing was good the people like 500 mix
out my parents are talking about oh
that's horrible that makes are gonna die
in like the mix we're gonna die anyway
like but like is it effective active
activism to let it mix or actually try
to shut down like or to try to shut down
the farms because the farmers gonna get
money from insurance to get more like is
that really helping or is it just
sabotaging will you you probably can
already guess what my answer is my
answer is no and I have talked about
this a fair bit on my channel lately
I'll say a little bit about why it's no
so for one thing interestingly you know
Gary Yourofsky who's a famous guy and
veganism he his start he sabotaged it
was either a mink farm or another type
of fur farm so if it wasn't mink it was
very similar to make
in Canada that was how we got his start
and that's why the charge against him
was international terrorism because I
think he was an American who crossed
into Canada any cemetery right that's
right yeah because he committed a crime
there was another example I know this is
a bit obscure but the brother of an
actress who was on Baywatch that yet
used to be a really famous TV show
Baywatch so this is bizarre I only know
this so this guy his sister was a
successful actress and she's also vegan
uh so this guy he decided to burn down a
slaughterhouse that was supposedly a
slaughterhouse just for horses so place
where they slaughtered and killed horses
I don't even know if that's true cuz I I
think most of the time one
slaughterhouse does you know cows as
well as horses but anyway that's what he
claimed it was a horse so a horse
abattoir it's possible I just just
unusual anyway he burned it down and
like you say you know like two weeks
later you know the insurance money paid
for it and it was rebuilt and reopened
me nothing nothing was accomplished but
what was accomplished is that his ass is
in jail he spent many years in prison
it's a serious charge there are many
different reasons why I do not believe
this is effective activism for one thing
I believe it discredits veganism it's a
problem for us as a movement as an ideal
and I would put you it will discredit
any ideology any ideal any movement uh
what if Buddhists did that you know what
if the main form of Buddhism was
Buddhists going and burning down cow
slaughter houses or Hindus any any kind
of new religion and can of religion
that's just not that well-known or not
that popular like Buddhism or Hinduism
people would regard Buddhist differently
it would discredit Buddhism in a huge
way now Buddhism doesn't have that good
of reputation I think the reputation of
Buddhism is mostly built on kung fu
movies like you know I'm not even
complaining but I mean kung fu movies
are popular and there's a wise old man
and he quotes Buddhist doctor and
everybody's philosophy and says oh don't
don't punch people or don't punch people
too much and then the whole movie people
punch each other and that's that's
um you know our perspective on Buddhism
or Hinduism would be dramatically
different if after immigrating to Canada
they were carrying out terrorist attacks
on cow slaughter houses and there is I
mean there is an argument within those
religions that that it's very easy to
imagine a parallel universe where they
did that so yes it does discredit
veganism but first and foremost what I
say to people when I talk to them
face-to-face is don't put yourself in a
cage there are situations in the history
of the world where the only thing you
can do politically is to resort to
violence and I study them I just wrote
an essay about a horrible situation in
1920 where you know it really came down
to guns and knives where it came down to
a fight fight to the death with bayonets
and swords and more than 6,000 people
got killed there are situations like
that in the history of the world and it
takes some degree of honesty to
recognize this ain't one of them you
know the struggle to get people educated
and motivated to support veganism I I
don't think anyone if you're really
being honest with yourself can say that
you're in a in a survival situation
where you need to break the law resort
to violence or have you and the up the
upshot will be those people just put
themselves in prison so you know if you
feel powerless now if you feel like
you're not an effective activist now how
effective are you going to be when
you're spending 10 years in jail you
know it's my improvised answer but yeah
I'm one of the only people talking
openly above that of really talking
about and it's okay look let's see
something positive positively I would
have just said is negative I've just
said why you shouldn't get involved with
extremism why you shouldn't get involved
with terrorism while you shouldn't do
illegal and violent acts what should you
do you should appreciate that you're
living in a democratic country even if
it's a really crappy democratic country
I think one of the questions we all got
to deal with as we grow up is what does
it mean to live in a democracy what are
the opportunities living in a democracy
what are the responsibilities living to
marks and what are the advantages as
well as the disadvantages and that's
something you don't learn
cool in school they don't teach you how
to go to City Hall and make a difference
they don't they don't teach you any of
that and you know you're probably
totaling really vague like oh you know
you're living in a special country
because there's no civil war here with
Isis you know there are no bombs like
you know you have peace and democracy
but what does democracy really mean what
democracy really means is if you're a
vegan and you want to change the world
you have ways to do it other than
violence you have some options and you
know going to City Hall it can be crappy
and draining and emotionally tough
people at City Hall will say things to
denigrate you and insult you and hurt
your feelings they really will there are
nasty aspects to local politics but you
know ultimately we do have elections we
do have freedom of speech we do have a
free press and as crappy as democracy is
in Canada because I dislike it I don't
like I don't like the Canadian political
system there actually are all these
openings opportunities for you to make
some positive happen and it's say
something even more positive do you
think the people who run Greenpeace are
a bunch of geniuses I don't I think
they're a bunch of idiots do you think
the people who run People for the
Ethical Treatment animals the Green
Party uh what's another one that's right
there are a couple of their
organizations the Sierra Club you know
foundations that deal with ecology or
animal rights or this connect to them
those people aren't geniuses but they
know better than to burn down a
slaughterhouse they know better than to
try to smash up a fur farm they're
people who are making a positive
difference and you can too i think you
can do better you know I doesn't in
recognizing that those people are kind
of stupid you have to recognize the same
time you know okay if we could get 10
smart people together we can do better
than the Green Party we can do better
than Greenpeace and that's not short
term that's long term that's over ten
years or what have you but that
potential is there that hope is there
and that is part of democracy
fundamentally that's completely built on
democracy when you are living in a
dictatorship when i was living in laos
because this is a really small example
any kind of political organization means
you go to prison there was sorry i hope
i hope
is a fun active for you I knew a
schoolteacher she was teaching English
at a school in Laos and they decided to
have a celebration for Earth Day you
know this holiday earth day they had the
kids get out their paints and paint
pictures of trees ecological messages
and write in English because it was the
English class happy Earth Day save the
bears save the elephants this kind of
thing the kids painted these and held
them up and they walked from one school
property to another school property the
city carrying their school projects all
put in prison for an illegal political
protest I'm not joking they were put in
prison the teacher was detained and
interrogated the principal of the school
was taken in deteriorated real talk
that's dictatorship that's the
difference between a democracy and
dictatorship okay um they weren't they
weren't even protesting they were
literally carrying their school projects
which was painting a poster about
ecology from one place to another in
Laos again louses communist dictatorship
they threatened to kill me they kicked
me out of the country I had my own
experience with politics there and I did
I never lets did I did advocate for
ecological change there in my small
polite way I did try to make a positive
difference in that country I knew a guy
it's not worth saying how I know these
people some people tried to form a club
not political at all they tried to form
a club for the owners of Volkswagen cars
so I people on old secondhand
Volkswagens in Laos they did not get the
permission of the Communist Party they
did not get the government's permission
to form a club for Volkswagen owners
thrown in prison thrown in prison for
having a legal political organization
okay so on a deep level when I talk
about like understanding democracy and
what it means to you what
responsibilities what opportunities of
course you can take it for granted
because we're all raised to take it for
granted we're raised with a
fundamentally kind of racist narrative
of the superiority of the British Empire
and of British culture and that
everything in Canada is just wonderful
because of British culture meanwhile
don't look at First Nations don't look
at it
side of it don't look at the actual
colonial history but this idea that just
because we have a parliament everything
in our society is better and it's almost
the opposite because we have a
parliament there is an onus on you
there's an obligation on you to figure
out for yourself how to make a pause the
difference in the world democratically
and for vegans there's good and bad that
comes with it but i hope i really hope
we can at least in the same sense that
you know there used to be real political
organizations about alcohol like Mothers
Against Drunk drunk driving at one time
that was no joke people getting
politically organized try to discourage
alcoholism and drunk driving like back
in the 1980s that was still a big issue
because the government didn't really
care that much about drunk driving and
they had a whole series of legal changes
related to drunk driving alcohol there
were actually yeah sure Hume to my high
school every year ins in a presentation
right so why doesn't it that exists for
veganism because we suck no seriously so
that's a good example of us against
drunk driving and the passengers could
say there were also organizations like
that for about cigarettes about trying
to get the government to change its
rules and cigarettes I always say that I
think mothers against drunk driving the
reason why they're less impressive today
is that they want like now the
government is completely against drunk
driving and all the legal changes they
wanted got made they won so now they can
shut up and that's also something we
don't think about as vegans we haven't
even thought through the possibility of
winning but in a Democratic Society when
you win then the struggle is over you
don't have to have organizations that
are against slavery forever you don't
have to have you know like protests on
the street about drunk driving forever
you can form an organization that
achieves its goals in Parliament and
does things like visiting school kids to
give them lectures about drunk driving
sure Mothers Against Drunk Driving there
are a success story but they also get to
fade out they become less important
because they've succeeded yeah maybe two
hundred years from now for me
they still have call centers in southern
Ontario I thought that stuff yeah hey
yeah a lot of that stuff's on the east
coast of Canada I did a ton of job
applications in the last bunch of months
I actually I think I never complained
about that on youtube so it's cool when
you have stuff going on in your life you
don't complain about on YouTube that's
that's also funny to reflect on but I
applied for jobs in Canada in Europe in
Japan and in China and I did Skype
interviews for a bunch of those jobs too
yeah my cousin I was two occasions she's
a teacher she's like oh you can be my au
pair I'm like it's Australia like it's
so far away yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah but
also what he apparently taking care of
little kids in Australia yeah it's like
she said okay I think it's just a fancy
word but babysitter yeah right yeah yeah
I pay you to do that but they live in
like that one back so yeah I mean look a
lot of that stuff too I see other other
people on YouTube giving really bad
advice about those types of jobs like
teaching English and going abroad to you
know these kinds of really low level
jobs it's definitely a situation where
you know reckless optimism can get you
into trouble some some people a few
people will have really positive
experiences that kind of work but both
short-term and long-term there are a lot
of real disadvantages you know if you
take up au pair work you are competing
with you know people from third world
countries like the Philippines who do
that work for less than minimum wage
that's you know that's what we do in
Canada as well as in Australia is
employing you know people from the
Philippines would having that kind of
work you're putting yourself in a
position where you're you're both not
paid well and not respected and it
doesn't look good on your resume or CV
and short-term and long-term it's the
implications are really tough and for a
lot of people i think what they don't
anticipate is just the level of
disrespect you get is how your how
you're treated now your talk to i would
i would say all those things what i just
said about being an au pair i would also
say about being an english teacher in
asia a lot of people are not you know
prepared i was at a CrossFit gym like
for 22 years three years yeah and
there's a guy that
he had an English degree and some other
degree like teaching to hear or
something and he went to somewhere new
and he did and he loved it and has wiped
it to pick it together but I don't know
if I want to do that yeah well also
these things a lot of them really are
indirectly banking on your parents
support in your life like they could
only pay you so little to be at
Australia because in reality your
parents are still like I assume you
still live with your parents yeah your
parents are still paying for you to have
a home in Canada and your parents are
paying for your airplane ticket so like
in reality you're your parents or
indirectly paying for you to have a job
that's less than minimum wage your
parents are providing subvention
subvention is our fancy economic in you
know and that's also a huge problem but
so so many of those things those lines
of work like you know those people they
like for an ESL teacher living in a kind
of homeless state in Asia if they don't
still have their parents supporting them
then they have no mailing address back
in Canada or whatever country they come
from they have no way to receive
government benefits they have no you
know they have no legal status anywhere
so anyway the disadvantages as I say
it's very straight from to seek is just
lately I just made a video talking about
this a little bit yesterday but selling
the dream of Independence of freedom
through these types of jobs in Asia when
really from my perspective it's it's the
exact opposite this is this is depriving
you of your freedom you're giving up
your shot at freedom so when you're
young travel but uh me I'll do it so
yeah wait till you're older or well
you're you're 18 right yeah I mean
that's the other thing it's like you
know I'm gonna get I have no idea what
kind of people your parents are but I
mean at 18 maybe you should be traveling
with your parents you know I know people
think that sounds humiliating or what
have you but most people at 18 I'm again
whether it's your parents or if you had
an older brother or something or older
sister whatever but most people at 18
cannot really travel alone and I think
it's funny too because think people tend
to think less critically when it's an
exotic place
so like you're 18 but it doesn't matter
some was 17 19 someone at about your age
I think if they told their parents they
were going to Detroit their parents
would be really concerned and look at
every step like okay well what hotel are
you going to stay at like let's plan
this out to make sure its weakest
Detroit is easy you can go to Detroit
it's no big deal but people think about
it really carefully of course Detroit as
crime and poverty you know something can
go wrong in Detroit but they tell their
parents the same age they're going to
Thailand people Oh fine hey you know oh
there's a beach in Thailand why would
that be difficult yeah you just take an
airplane you're there it's no problem
like well you know assuming you don't
speak the Thai language thailand is
pretty difficult you know any of these
places Thailand China what have you it's
a lot it's a lot more difficult than
Detroit and really of whether it's an
older brother or somebody or I mean if
you had a best friend who spoke the
local language fluently that'd be
different too but it strange to me as
soon as it becomes exotic and far away I
think people stop thinking critically
carefully about it whereas again
probably you know New York or Detroit or
any of those things there they're pretty
safe and easy if you speak English but
we tend to be much more careful conserve
upon them when i was 16 i went to the
netherlands cuz I family back there and
I stayed with my cousin and I don't know
where it is I can't even pronounce it
but it's like an hour away from
Amsterdam and stay there for two weeks
and then he he's in business so he with
the Curacao is it going guys should come
to Curacao I don't know if you know
where that is yeah we pronounce it
corao in standard English course how I
want yeah I've never been there was to
be it's a famous beautiful island yeah
we went there for a week and rented a
villa what it was the most beautiful
place I've ever been to like it's crazy
that may be the way the Dutch pronounce
it they may say Curacao I know but ok
you know so I'm sure that's the Dutch
Prince but in English it's become
corao we're probably wrong but that's
that's this yeah yeah no that croco is
just wrong but that's the way a lot of
people inspiron zino kuroko is yeah yeah
it actually is the color of the sea
birds right that's why it's famous it's
famous for the the beauty to see
so yeah but anyway you're you're
currently are you in your first year
university or what I don't I don't know
how these things I went to Sheridan and
brampton for a year I thought I wanted
to math letak therapy but cuz I've been
to like sports and weightlifting but I'm
like wait I hate human biology yeah so I
did at journal arson science to get into
that program and I did well in that but
I didn't want to do that so I'm doing
human rights instead wow there's a
change there's it there's a switch okay
human rights alright cool yeah yeah my
mom she's like me you like human rights
and like stuff like that so she's like
oh you have you always have something
you're like passionate about and stuff
like that so why don't you use that's it
hurts the BA will actually called a BA
in human rights that'll be the name of
the beer yeah there was explaining how
it was it's a BA in human rights in
human diversity but i'm doing a minor in
human resources so what is this you know
my first diploma is political science
which is from Canada some University of
Toronto and in general for all those
degrees the the only way to get a job is
to then get an MPP or an MPA which is
masters of public policy or master of
public administration so if if you want
money at any point in life it doesn't
have to be after you finish the degree
you you could definitely take a human
rights degree and then get a temp EP or
an mpa I'm not recommending that but uh
I think that's that's the at least the
plan B or the plan see you know
somewhere on your list you should be
aware of that and the good thing about
MPP + m PA diplomas is that they're
really cheap so like it's like two
thousand five hundred dollars or
something you know tuition so yeah
that's his cheat like hey compared to
becoming a dentist as really cheap you
know so
do a girl I met her on her actually and
she she's from blonde and she's like
that dental school mistakes it's like uh
seventy thousand dollars he Orson yeah
and she's like yeah I don't know if I
want to go in Canada or the states like
that is crazy no it's it's really
depressing you know because I study
these obscure languages I've looked at
so many universities and I was looking
at a language program the United States
for allow solo is the language of Laos
it's also a lotion whatever but their
preferred name is just to say Lao and
you know just to study there for three
months it was several tens it was like
thirty thousand dollars i was gently
because it wasn't even a full academic
year it was just a few months at a
university in the States and they made
the mistake of putting up YouTube videos
of what the education program is like so
you can see what it really is you know
look like if there were no YouTube
videos you could at least kid yourself
like oh it's it's tens of thousands of
dollars but I bet it's really great it's
like no it's some people sitting around
you know it's it's impossible to justify
the cost and then you look at that when
i lived in laos in the country when i'll
study the language just by being there
and coping and teaching myself and a lot
of hard work a normal government worker
salary was fifteen US dollars per month
and then the next level up was 30 30 30
US dollars per month and i had a period
of time there when i earned three
hundred US dollars per month and i had
people working with me who were
governments whatever government
officials and they would say to me why
do you make as much money as 20 of us so
in terms of poverty and how far the
money would go like instead of studying
for one semester at a university united
states you could buy a hotel in Laos and
own and operate your own hotel for like
10 years like that's how extreme the
only the only thing i have to know it is
probably since I left because now I
haven't been involved with lost like 10
years probably the costs have gone up
and up and probably salaries have gone
up a bit so I'm about ten years of eight
but still those those extreme
tres of wealth and poverty and how they
relate to American education is insane
here in Canada it's still semi insane
the costs are still a bit a bit dumb but
yeah america's got it on another level
yeah i complain about the minimum wage
here yeah and then you get to your
wallet so much yeah and again well
coming back to where I said earlier
about subvention which I know it most
people do not other words subvention but
you know of relying on your parents
money indirectly that way that's a lot
of what goes on in those countries also
so like if you ask how is it possible
for people to live on one dollar a day
well it's because in reality their
parents still own a farm and they can
still go back to that farm and live
there for free without paying rent and
like if they get fired or their job
stops or a few months they can go back
to the farm and our money working on the
farm and come back again their parents
are probably unlikely to actually give
them cash but their parents are giving
them support of various kinds well
they're living in the city and doing
those kinds of jobs so in a lot of
countries that's definitely say Thailand
and China have that in common the
explosive growth of manufacturing of
heavy industry it indirectly relied on
support from the agricultural sector
that way of subvention in that sense and
the problem is that only lasts for one
or two generations because even if your
parents own farmland if they have three
kids they can't leave farmland to all
three kids right though there's it's not
you know it's not like every generation
there's a new country worth of land at
one time land got handed out to people
for free that causes a ton of wealth
directly and indirectly and then within
a couple of generations that effect of
making the whole society wealthier
starts to disappear I just mentioned
here in bc if you look at who has money
I do not mean to make this a racist
thing but race is an element the rich
white people in bc they are
disproportionally the people who
benefited from what was called
preemption preemption was the polite
word for kicking the indigenous people
off the land kicking out the First
Nations and giving the land to white
people for free so the way people didn't
actually buy the land and interesting
system so that was an opportunity that
existed at one point in time and now
it's over
and a hundred years later if your
grandparents were the lucky white people
who benefited from preemption you're now
fabulously wealthy because you had land
giving you for free you know in the West
Coast year the land is really worth body
weight some yo Northwest Territories not
so much but in DC that history is quite
short because colonialism here happened
very late and they went to this system
of preemption actually because other
styles other systems of colonialism had
already failed in Canada other systems
of giving Atlanta white people so I
mentioned this to say this is a pattern
you can see in the history of South
Korea in the history of canada in the
history of a country like Thailand in
totally different histories totally
different countries different cultures
at some point the government gives out
land for free to people and it has
massive knock-on effects and today in
terms of our society we don't use the
word aristocrat but in reality the
aristocrats here in British Columbia the
rich they are the sons and daughters of
the people who benefited from preemption
preemption is another great example of a
word where you could not possibly guess
what it means by looking at fiction
using like I feel dumb I don't know what
you're saying right right yeah well you
know my grandparents came out here
because of the preemption pulse oh yes
my preemption means genocide actually
live i live near the Six Nations reserve
like do you know where norfolk county is
i looked it up on google when you
mention it to me but I mean I I didn't I
didn't look into it in great dad you
know important over no honestly no okay
it's like it's like a on Friday the 13th
like thousands of water cycle people
come to port over but it's right near
the Six Nations reserve and there's so
much racism and right hey it's just so
sad yeah well you know so in
Saskatchewan I was actually a student at
First Nations University I I assume you
know it's been mentioned on my youtube
channel every five minutes so went there
to study Korean a jib way and politics
of First Nations and the ongoing
struggles for language but also their
general struggles the Canadian
government that was
what I wanted to do for the rest of my
life it's really hard for outsiders to
understand because the other part of my
life is Asia so I talked to Asian people
a lot and that is really hard from to
understand that the primary form of
racism in most of Canada is racism
against First Nations so like all the
time I would be talking to Chinese
people and they would be like oh no like
Canada is wonderful like nobody here is
racist at all and they would mean
they're not racist against Chinese
people and like I know the things
they're talking about they value like
Chinese immigrants who come here they
really appreciate that when they go to
the bank there's like a pamphlet in
Chinese at the bank and like the bank
machine and maybe as an option like at
the beginning you can press a button
English French Chinese you know and I
would point out to them when you go to
that bank machine there's no button for
Cree there's no button for a jib way you
it's like on a really deep level Chinese
people have a better status in Canada
than the Kree do even though in
Saskatchewan like at least ten percent
of people are CREE percentages and I
mean you know in Ontario indigenous
people are very small percentage I think
that the smallest in Quebec I think
they're a boat like they're they're down
closer to one percent of three percent
in Quebec just because the vast majority
people quebecor you know white white
settlers or whatever want to say um so
yeah it's funny I've dealt with that as
an insider just as someone born and
raised in Canada and I deal with it as
an outsider but I mean you talk to like
Pakistani immigrants Chinese immigrants
like they're good but they're their
perspective on like First Nations and
race and races it it's a bit scary yeah
it's a bit worrying for the immediate
future of our country yeah even my
parents they're like oh I'm not racist
but then they're like oh why can't they
just get over it like just work hard and
you'll like it's not like that yeah yeah
yeah well I do with six six nations is a
unique unique example mr. Canada to
blame or whatever when I can talk about
six nations you want to talk about
veganism and an activism a little bit or
you okay cool so what's that what let's
start with a really simple question when
did you become vegan or when did you
first get interested in these these
types of things
January cool cool cool another long ago
um I have a Twitter it's like a kind of
like Fitness Twitter I guess I have some
friends on that I met and one of them
was vegan she's vegan for like she has
IBS and um albums like that and she kind
of just showed me like bits and parts of
[ __ ] veganism I'm like wow like I'm a
piece of [ __ ] reading me um maybe I
should stop so like I cut it out bit by
bit and then enjoy anywhere I was like I
should be vegan so it's been three
months and never felt better and like
emotionally and physically yeah so uh
what are you thinking of now I mean
you're looking at veganism in terms of
activism now or what's what are the
current questions you're asking yeah I
was gonna write down questions but um
didn't know what to write down but um I
was actually a part of the health unit I
was part of like a youth group and we
were doing like smoking and like mental
health stuff and um I see a lot of
people they try to blame they try to
blame everybody and our point for the
smoking thing was to blame the company's
not the people like you can't attack
people and expect them to change you
have to like change the company's not
that it's really hard to explain yeah I
understand gone but um I'm not exactly
how to like be an activist for veganism
like there's so many different
approaches and I'm like I don't know
what to do yo it's in the country and
there's not much stuff we can do I don't
know yeah well look I mean um I think
the the big question that I I kind of
want to talk about more of my youtube
channel because it's boring but it's
really important has to do with your
commitment to the place you know I you
know I've made comparisons between
veganism and smoking all the time but
the other kind of comparison have made
since the start of my channel is talking
about vegan politics as opposed to going
to City Hall you know being involved
with
activism on local issues that way uh in
some ways being in a small town is an
advantage in that you can build up the
trust of people and contacts with people
locally but the choice of where you are
and whether or not you're really
committed to that place is is
fundamental in terms of my own political
development I went through a long series
of stages before I really embraced what
I would just call pragmatic politics
where I really made the decision in my
life look what matters to me is whether
or not the drinking water is poisoned is
whether or not you know like so Toronto
was on a lake all right and at that time
this may have changed but I doubted you
could look at a map and be like here is
the tunnel that puts sewage into the
lake and here is the tunnel that takes
in drinking water for the city and they
were so close together what the city did
was they built and they extended there
was a little like brick wall underwater
it doesn't even go to the service
there's like a little wall underwater to
try to make the poo go off in one
direction and the drinking water come in
and other day I should like it you do
not need an advanced degree in
biochemistry to see what the problem is
anyone could look at that map and see
the reality that oh another thing I'll
just mention that's interesting in terms
of like the larger scale of ecologic
Toronto is built on a tiny tiny river
now the Don River that that's just a
trickle there's like nothing there
there's a small park there and so on a
river that was destroyed aika logically
when Toronto was founded that river was
big enough to have steamboats going up
it so like old-fashioned southern
American South steamboats would carry
people up this river basically the whole
length of the city the city is this now
from the from the lakefront up the
reason why the the water level dropped
so dramatically was deforestation when
you cut down the trees you cut out the
hydrological cycle you reduce the amount
of water being pumped through the
ecosystem to simplify slightly and river
levels drop so in Toronto nobody Percy
these problems they're invisible
although they're right in front of your
face so people cross over that River on
a bridge they drive their cars over the
river they don't see an ecological
history they don't see the devastation
that's implicit in right people drink
water out of their tap every day really
in 5 seconds they could look at a map
and see that problem so that for me this
is before I became vegan back then I was
strictly vegetarian I made a video toy
guide I'd really never even heard the
word vegan but I was I was pretty close
to vegan in terms of what I believed in
I was I was already very close to vegan
and I refused to wear leather and stuff
like that um but you know for me it was
really a turning point my life was like
okay I want to deal with real politics
and I admit it's a completely subjective
definition like what is real and then
what is real politics it's completely
it's not objective it's subjective but
to me I decided look there's all this
kind of BS going on with you know people
holding signs in the streets and
protesting and in Toronto there's a lot
of very far left politics extreme
communism that sort of thing and people
wanting to have opinions on issues they
can't influence so like an issue an
example this is probably even true at
your college probably even as Sheridan
College there will be people protesting
human rights in Israel which is
understandable but if you live in
southern Ontario you cannot make an
impact on human rights in Israel yeah no
no but I just mentioned so like on many
university campuses that is something
gets protested like on campus as if it's
something your professors can change you
know but these kinds of issues like you
know the water and the deforestation and
pollution and city you know city
ordinances city plan city political
changes those are things I really could
impact and influence and to me that
seemed like something that was
completely morally positive for me to do
with my time as opposed to what was
going on again on basically in left-wing
politics in Canada I I didn't have any
contact with right wing right wing
politics like right-wing politics also
exists but I mean I I don't I'd never
even met those people it's just downtown
Toronto I didn't see it obviously like I
think the
working people in Toronto vote for the
Conservative Party so it exists but I
mean you know I just say this not wasn't
wasn't really part of my life there was
no temptation for me to join the up
conservatives me yeah me maybe things
would have turned out better for me
either haha but look what you are yeah
well I don't fit in in Canada there's no
place from here and you know i'm going
back to china in a few weeks so we'll
see how that works out they will come
back to what i am if you want a second
but look this is this is me giving you
the advice about you and activism in a
small town another material I there is
no way i could tell you that the town
you were born in or the town your
parents own a house in Surrey you may be
more elsewhere does matter but there's
no reason why the town you're living in
would be the right town for you and in a
lot of ways Toronto is the wrong city
for me like in a lot of ways it's the
wrong place for me to make that
commitment but I think any kind of
meaningful activism it's very humbling
to recognize it does require that type
of commitment to say I'm committed to
this place at this time like for whether
it's 10 years 20 years or what and this
also reflects why religious
organizations have a huge advantage over
like vegan organizations or just left
wing organizations the fact that a
church owns property it owns a building
there's a church and a church basement
and people meet there and play the
guitar I'm not religious at all as you
may have guessed but we're saying the
churches of a huge advantage of that and
you can go to that church and you can do
fundraising where you say look we're
really concerned about the drinking
water we'll just stick with the same
example and you know here's the map
here's where the sewage goes in here's
where drink water comes from this is
really a problem we're concerned about
and the city government is doing this
and maybe at that church maybe there is
50 people who are sympathetic willing to
listen you may not even need their money
you know you may actually need their
signature some some things in democratic
process you need 50 people to sign a
piece of paper but maybe they each give
you ten dollars you know can make can
make a really big difference and then to
be building that kind of trust with
people face to face in one place at one
time that's why historically churches
that this huge
vantage and vegans by and large we've
started with that kind of infrastructure
with other kind of support so I see one
speaks I'll just finish the sense that
is also when vegans make the comparison
to martin luther king jr dr martin
luther king jr. have to give his full
name they always skip the religious
component the reality is the political
power martin luther king jr. had was
built on Christianity was built on
Christian churches was built on the fact
that he could go from town to town
speaking at churches and each one of
those churches had deep grassroots
support from people who knew each other
face-to-face who trusted each other they
had the potential to make a political
difference already before he got there
and of course he had his own church he
had his own ministry he had his own
status in that so again when people say
to you Oh we'll look at Martin Luther
King jr. okay will really look I don't I
don't have any of those advantages I'm a
guy on YouTube yes I mean and and that
is the in some ways I love it like in
some ways I love the fact that anyone
can watch my youtube channel and get
interested and get motivated and in
theory can make a difference in the
world but i'm also really aware of the
disadvantages that I've got and that and
that collectively we've got so but but
the implicit point there i was saying is
there's no way i can tell you you're
living in the right tail it may be the
wrong place here maybe you decide like
one year from now or whatever that you
hate the town you're living in and
you're going to move to montreal or
you're going to move to to beijing like
it could be uh or or florida you decide
Sarasota Florida is where you want to
sit down roots but I think the point is
if you want to move somewhere else even
if it's just Montreal the decision not
to be there as a tourist the decision to
say no no these are my people this is my
problem this is my responsibility I'm
not just here for fun or not sure to
make money I'm you know I'm going to set
down roots that even if it's completely
invisible that's a big change that's a
big difference that's different from
just being there because all these
people go to Thailand I was talking to
vegans who went to Thailand and they
were really being sincere with me they
didn't think there was any poverty they
didn't think there was any prostitution
they didn't think any of these social
problems existed
they're they're seeing it I I can't
explain it they're seeing it just as
tourists but obviously it's possible to
go to Montreal or go to Toronto stay
with Toronto it's possible to go to
Toronto and not see any problems
definitely you go to Toronto when you
don't see where the drinking water comes
from right and you don't see the
deforestation and the destruction that
river there can be very obvious problems
when I was there Toronto actually was
running out of drinking water it's not
worth explaining why it's for technical
reasons even though Lake Ontario is
really big you can still rendering war
when i was there Toronto had literally
run out of places to put its garbage and
we're wasting millions of dollars
sending it on trucks to the United
States and a huge distance of the border
was a catastrophe financially as well as
psychologically basically due to
government and competence obviously as a
tourist you don't see any of that but if
you're there and you care just a little
bit you see all of it and I think
obviously I would give this advice to
someone who is non vegan but I think
it's even more important for vegans
because vegans may think about these
issues in an abstract way like it's only
about the whole world like it's about
air pollution on a global scale and my
perspective is no it never is it's
always about your town your five friends
your 10 people again it would be your
church group if you've got a church
group I don't it's on that level of
local local unit organization you know
that's that's where the struggle gets
fought and that's where you figure out
you know if you can live a meaningful
life or not and if you can't I don't
know you got to move to Montreal
whatever yeah actually lived in Brampton
in the residence there I just didn't
feel like the Brampton is so shitty I
just I can't live there and like I came
back here I just feel I've lived in this
house my entire life my parents moved it
here and like built it and I just feel
like I belong here and I don't know so
maybe you maybe you're explaining like
the Toronto wha we had a place to get
garbage like someone who wanted to buy
the Vics pickle planet let's down their
own for my house and put garbage mm and
then p world with their protesting it
and so it didn't get
bought for that but my dad just bought
it for his business man the bix pickle
plant head of all places to add to move
his business your dad doesn't make
pickles they move down to Texas or
something but though because people make
so many excuses as to why they need why
they dairy it's like everyone knows it's
bad to smoke well I didn't a long time
ago but everyone knows it's bad to smoke
but it'd be so hard because I live in
that farming community and people like
oh it's good to eat meat it's good to
like these animals are happy to be in
these cages and like what they even
allow someone like a vegan activist to
come to school because there's so many
different excuses and like stuff like
that but people would just throw in your
face instead of asking you questions
right it's not a short-term struggle
it's a long-term problem it's a
long-term issue yeah you know I mean I
agree with you today in Canada you can't
do that but I mean definitely I think
that a lot of schools would for you
today in 2016 I think they would be open
to someone talking more generally about
animal rights about animal cruelty
because a lot of schools have problems
with kids that torture animals that kind
of thing like I remember like in Taiwan
there will be issues with educating kids
about cruel forms like it weighs the
torture animals that are done to
entertain human beings some of them are
hard to describe what they actually
liquid have like a living goldfish and
there would be like a metal skewer into
its body so that looks like the goldfish
is doing tricks but it's actually being
used like a puppet sorry this is China
you know what we can say uh yeah but I
mean you know was it kind of educating
children about the type of Cruelty
that's in circuses the types of animal
cruelty that relate to children I think
probably already in 2016 you could put
together an educational package like
Mothers Against Drunk Driving that deals
with basic questions of animal rights
and animal cruelty and human
responsibility towards animals where the
question of veganism or the question of
where milk comes from is one component
of that that would be very you'd
politically you'd have to put that
curriculum together very carefully in
Canada but I've been part of processes
for one of the East Coast provinces like
Brunswick or something I was invited to
give my opinion on the official school
curriculum on Buddhism you know like how
would they would teach Buddhism to
school children in New Brunswick so
that's its carefully negotiated now was
I was invited that because there were
Buddhist monks who respected my opinion
they were like look and you look at this
and give us your opinion so I just say
there are processes like that where
education systems in Canada it's in each
province where they look at and they
talk to experts or special rights groups
like you know they were basically
checking with Buddhist to say look is
this offensive as this accurate is this
telling it and I thought I thought it
was complete horseshit to come I thought
what they were teaching children about
what is it was terrible but i'm sure
they disregarded my opinion but uh
they're normally is some window for
participation education system but for
in many places maybe that's a bit more a
bit more long-term but yeah when I was
probably 10 or so we made someone come
in from a local farm yeah talk about
milk what and it's just crazy because
they're like oh milk is good for this
good for that and then learn about it
now and you're like it is torture it is
we don't need milk why do we drink milk
like it's just for profit yeah yeah well
I think why are they allowed to come in
like it's I think though that is I mean
again you would have to be a member of
The Parent Teacher Association or
something mean you personally probably
can't do that but I think that is
something parents can challenge school
boards on is well why are you doing pro
pro far more Pro milk propaganda if you
are that I want equal time if the kids
are getting two hours of pro milk
propaganda then I want to give them two
hours you know if the opposite and of
course most schools would just say okay
let's cancel let's cancel the propaganda
from the milk board but obviously there
are there are both scientific and
ethical reasons why you can make that
argument but i don't know i mean like in
the united states this is a few decades
ago there used to be struggles like this
about sex education probably there still
are in the really conservative states
you know like you know but a lot of
parents what they did to compensate was
they organized their own sex education
that was outside of the school you know
and i think i think even some church
groups did that like more liberal
churches or like well look it hosts
somebody's got to teach these kids where
babies come from so yeah those those
types of struggles are ongoing but I've
got to say like I think we're talking
right now but some really optimistic
examples at some point Mothers Against
Drunk Driving had to start with five or
ten mother's sitting down and signing
the paperwork the former foundation I
don't have five people I can work with
here in Victoria there are a lot of
vegans in Victoria there are I mean
compared most of Canada is really bleak
you were mentioning that about brampton
or whatever you know like a lot of kin
is really horrible Victoria is beautiful
there are several vegan restaurants
there's a big vegan presence I ain't got
I ain't got five vegan friends in
Victoria I couldn't do the paperwork to
make a foundation I couldn't even get a
student group organized on campus or
what have you another story um you know
so what I could do here is limited I've
got like maybe 2,000 people on the
internet who are really interested in
hearing me say say things about veganism
including especially organization and
activism but some of them are in Germany
some of the United States so again the
opportunity fundamentally rests on the
five people you can trust the 10 people
you can trust and being rooted in one
local place which is again why I say the
churches have such an advantage just
even just having a building you know
having a basement and a building and a
commitment to that neighborhood or
whatever it is and of course there's
also power in knowing people for four
years and years I mean oh yeah I know
you I I was at your father's funeral
that's deep and none of us got that none
of us have you know no offense of happy
if you do but the vast majority gan's
were not United that way where she's
like oh yeah I know him I knew his
grandfather I was at that guy's funeral
I was at her wedding we have some level
of trust and cohesion
internet connects vegans like I know a
couple from the states and canada and
I'm actually I meant to dinner have you
been to hog John vegan in Toronto no I
think that didn't exist when I was in
Toronto I was in trial a long time ago I
left it's so good i had a like a buffalo
chicken ranch round yeah so good but we
went there for dinner and I know a
couple other ones and I'm going to do
means have you heard of that yeah I
heard about it just a couple days ago
yeah go on and this week am so excited
with like that's where vegans unites
restaurants basically yeah yeah but I
think that's also the struggle like when
I was talking to cheetah about it I
think there's also sense of
disappointment for many people because
you go to those restaurants and you
leave with the same number of friends
you came with you know that's also part
of Canadian culture like it's it's
really hard in Canada to go to a
restaurant and and make connections that
will actually be you know political or
otherwise real relationships like he was
talking about the hipster people like I
went to one in sick Catherine's last
week and it was just all like hipster
people like I'm not like that I I don't
look like that or act like that so it's
kind of weird going in there to you're
like I don't belong like it feels weird
yeah but I mean look so I get a lot of
questions about that or just lately in
the last couple of weeks but including
from older people so cheetah he's old i
forget i will the US but I mean he's not
a kid but people in their 30s have
exactly the same problem like people
people in their 50s have the same
problem and the advice I've given
recently because I talked about this
last couple days is you know one option
is to really just be honest about what
your concerns are so like I think one of
the most the biggest barriers is drug
culture but I say like look you know you
really have the option of saying to
somebody I'm vegan and I'm really
excited to meet you because you're vegan
but on the other hand you know I feel
like I can't trust you because you've
told me you're heavily into marijuana
hashish ayahuasca
cocaine whatever you know drug culture
is real and it's emits a big part like
so-called hippie subculture within
veganism a lot of it's about about drug
use it's okay to actually say that to
somebody and you know what happens after
that and the conversation the
relationship is another story maybe they
say back to you well go to hell you know
if you're not cool with you know heavy
mind-altering drug use don't even talk
maybe they say that okay it's that
simple but I think you might be
surprised at the range of advances you
can get another hard limit as i
mentioned religion so many times all the
time I meet people who have religious
differences from me and whatever I meet
them and say well look I like you I want
to know you because you're vegan or
because you're serious about ecology but
I've got to tell you the Christian
Church killed millions of people but
let's say they're Christian that history
is real and that matters to me in a
bunch of different ways it matters to me
within the history of Asia it matters to
move the history of First Nations people
here in Canada and you know ultimately
I'm a Jew you also exterminated my
people and put them into ghettos you
know they have their own history of
oppressing the Jews to whatever i'm not
really hung up on that emotionally but
you might as well lay it on the table
say so where are we going to go from
here you know with this relationship if
you can say that to someone honestly and
I would see both of those things in a
more polite and appealing way I wouldn't
be quite quite that blunt talking to
someone face-to-face is christian or
face-to-face who's part of the drug
culture uh honesty is an option you know
i mean so what you've mentioned i think
is less is less intimidating if you meet
someone and I don't know they're into
some music scene I know you just said
hipster I don't know let's say that lets
say they're heavily into punk rock just
just for the example back in like two
thousand in Toronto there was a big
anarchist punk rock scene I guess it was
getting smaller every year at that time
it used to be big in the 90s or whatever
you know you can say to someone honestly
look I'm vegan you're vegan I want to
know you I think we've slam in common
politically but I'm concerned I'm not
part of the punk rock scene at all I'm
not cool in the way you think we in
terms of what you think cool is I'm
afraid you don't want to know me I'm
afraid we have
this barrier again you can say it in a
more charming way but you can you can
take those concerns and make them
explicit you can make them overt and I
think that's a pretty good basis for
moving ahead with a friendship or at
least not being enemies and they may say
to you yeah you're right you know you
and me should get together to talk about
the things we have in common and I
recognize you're not going to come to
the same rock concerts i go to you're
not going to be part of the other parts
of my life you know I guess maybe I
think maybe things like Facebook make it
worse were you like the website
presentation of people facebook and
instagram it's like either you subscribe
to my whole lifestyle or the most
glamorous part of my lifestyle I choose
to put in the internet or you don't you
know either you're part of the same the
same aesthetic I'm a part of or you're
not but that's you know that's not real
life of people people are multifaceted
and probably probably there are some
people who would have those differences
for me you know who are for instance
Christian or our drug users or you know
our into punk rock who could still
really be my friends who can really be
my colleagues because we have veganism
and calmness of males come maybe I could
have a really meaningful relationship
with one of those people and just
acknowledge the differences I talk I
talk a lot about tolerance on my channel
I think that's a really meaningful
aspect of tolerance and people attack me
for being too tolerant I had you know
Kenya on my channel I had jasom shall I
talk to both of them there are people
who criticize me saying that I should be
like denouncing them like I should be
hating them for various things they've
done wrong what about tolerance what
about cooperation if I can't build on
the common ground of God with people
like that there are differences there
are things I disagree with there are
many differences vegan cheetah or
whatever there are many differences but
if you're not willing to try you know to
build on common ground you're going to
be alone either you're going to be alone
or you're going to be a member of a
fanatical cult group with only people
who agree with you and I don't know
which one is scarier because I don't
want that either I don't want to just be
people who are like me I'm a really
weird guy I don't know if I'd enjoy
being around people who have a lot in
common with me yeah yeah you look you
see you said the cult thing and my
brother always makes the job he's like
all are you you're still part of that
cult or something i'm like it's not a
cold like maybe some parts of it like
freely freely whatever that is it seems
kind of cultish though like she's the
leader and everyone's her followers like
i just hate that well look what we're
coming up in one hour but I mean the
good news and the bad news about that is
that everyone on the internet feels that
way I know even within Canada I know
some vegan leaders who think they're
incredibly powerful and famous because
they can make a post on tumblr and get
100 thumbs up you know or 100 clicks you
know showing approval and I completely
understand that like from a human
perspective for you if you're sitting at
your desk and you can you can get a
hundred people to agree with you on
Twitter on your blog on whatever medium
for many many people that's an ego trip
that's a power trip they feel like
freely and and other people regard them
like freely and they may regard for you
like that uh but at some point your life
it's really a crucial step in in
maturity to recognize you ain't [ __ ] you
know and everyone else in the system
feels the same way Bill Clinton ain't
[ __ ] and even when people are in
positions of power like Bill Clinton
they feel powerless because they rely on
so many other people now in reality Bill
Clinton has real power in reality you
know the boss of a corporation feels
real power but one of the things you
realize again this is this is I think
many people are 40 years old before they
realize this when you're the boss that's
when you're working for everyone else
the minute you're the boss you're trying
to make everyone else happy you know
like you're the owner of the restaurant
now you're trying to make every customer
happy every employee
happy you seem to be taking orders from
everyone else even though you're in
charge you know so I mean I I don't even
know I can't even call that humility
it's just recognizing where you are as
one individual person and the Internet
in a lot of ways it magnifies some of
the worst parts of human nature the only
thing I can see that's good about it is
that nobody's getting killed or very
very few people are getting killed
compared to old fashioned politics
compared to what politics was like in
Canada in the 1930s even in the 1970s
you know it's good that people have an
outlet where they can state their
feelings and emotions without actually
causing harm but the bad things are
people are more isolated than ever
before people are more diluted than ever
before people live in an echo chamber or
a cult group or like a you know
intellectual ghetto where only only
other people who agree with them come to
their website or come to their Facebook
page so they get deeper and deeper into
a cult-like mentality people who follow
freely think everyone loves freely
things really is the most important
person in the world she ain't [ __ ] I i
don't care if she's got a million
followers you still ain't [ __ ] as a Bill
Clinton still ain't [ __ ] um you know so
yeah there's good and bad to it but I
think I think the fundamental good
you've probably already already 18 you
probably have this experience the
internet can put you in touch with
people who are really your friends for
the rest of your life and it can help
you stay in touch with people like if
you move to Montreal you can stay in
touch with people from your hometown for
the rest your life where in the past you
couldn't so that's very very positive
and for veganism is and for everything
else I encourage people to really try to
make the most out of that emotionally
positive aspect to the Internet no I was
gonna actually more pizza the email I
sent and the conversation I had with my
mom and I never really think confront
people kind of shocking the question she
asked me like oh what about farm workers
um I forget some of the other questions
she asked me but I I was a hard time
uh answering them Nick we're like plants
are plants have feelings too were plants
like when like mom do you really feel
the same cutting the grasses you do
cutting a pig's throat and she's like
yeah I do like no you don't like and
then my boyfriend is over in the corner
he's like I don't want to like I don't
want to talk about this like my mom is
going off and like it's so hard to like
these excuses people have and like what
do you say I don't know yeah but look I
think I think the absolute final thought
I already made like a 17 minute video
giving you my advice on that but I think
there really is a difference between
someone agreeing with you and someone
respecting you you know and I think with
your parents especially because
obviously you know your parents are
still giving you a place to live there
still supporting your life different
ways I think you have to just be able to
say to your parents I don't need you to
agree with me I just need you to respect
the decision I made you know I need you
to respect me you know i'm not going to
eat meat I need you to respect that
period that's the bottom line and that's
humbling for both parties and you know
your parents when they raise those kinds
of issues you can really say to them I
know you don't understand that's ok you
know maybe you'll never understand but I
need you to respect that and you can
remind them look there are a lot of
worse things you could be doing you
could you could be doing cocaine you
could have joined the seventh-day
adventists they're not that bad as
religious cults go but I'm you know you
could you are 18 years old you can join
a crazy religion you know you can you
can go sign up to join the church of
scientology please don't um you know you
you could be doing porn on the internet
18 i think is the agent sir you know you
could and what would your parents
[ __ ] do they would have to accept it
really think of it i need to say that to
them you're not doing porn on the
internet you're talking about veganism
the internet you know I accept what you
do and I like it but please don't force
your opinions on me
that's what I think people always say
don't force your can you don't force
your lifestyle but I'm just trying to
tell you what I believe like I'm not
trying to like cheat like one court I'm
trying to like change your views but I'm
not trying to like make you feel bad or
make you yeah it's that's the one thing
people say the mostest don't try to like
change me yeah yeah but but nobody else
is your mom right you get one mom and
one dad unless you have very complicated
family um so that that's all I'd say I
like I think that is an exception to the
rule and I think you can just be honest
with them they could be honesty up with
it you know you're my mom therefore I'm
not gonna try to change your mind and I
mean you know when I was a Buddhist I
never tried to convert my parents to
Buddhism keeping it real yeah uh but
conversely again you know veganism helps
animals and religions kind of more like
a personal thing I think so I don't know
no I yeah people view it as a religion
but I don't view it as a religion I knew
it as helping other animals again I've
made all these other comparisons to
smoking to mothers against drunk driving
to what have you uh no I think that I
mean veganism has some things in common
with a religion fundamentally uh and I I
think you know the problem with religion
of course is that it's not private of
course religions try to change society
of course religions try to change laws
our whole culture in Canada is totally
built by Christianity so some of it
becomes invisible to us everything you
know go to Quebec they solve a Christian
cross hanging on the wall of Parliament
everything about our education system is
still Christian there you know the
treatment of first nations and
everything else we live in a society
totally shaped by Christianity so it
becomes invisible to some extent if you
go on vacation to a Muslim country you
suddenly are in a country where
everything is instead shaped by as long
and of course there are social and
violet to measure that right now you
know World War for going on right now
involves the Islamic state and it's very
much about the future of Islam as a
religion if you go to India there's an
open contest between Hinduism
Islam for who's going to control the
government who's going to shape
religious policy and of course Israel
and other extreme examples so no I mean
I think the the social dimension of
religion is inevitable and I'd say it's
even part of what defines religion if
you actually are just talking about
private belief if you're talking about
someone who has a crazy idea but what
happens after you die with no social
dimension I think that's not a religion
I think that's just one crazy old guy
who has a theory about what happens
after you die it's only when people are
organized into a church when people want
to raise their children with the same
beliefs so already there as soon as you
want to raise your children of the same
beliefs you start building schools here
in Victoria I mean Victoria is beautiful
so people retire here every retirement
home has a different religious
denomination on it right there's a
separate retirement home for Baptists so
Baptists and Catholics don't have to
retire in the same building is that the
way Jesus wanted it there's a separate
church for Korean Anglicans and white
angle Ken's so that Koreans and white
people don't have to sit in the same
church is that what Jesus wanted I'm not
Christian at all but to me the total
insanity of that has become normal in
Canada in downtown Toronto we had
separate schools for Jews and Catholics
to me that's deeply deeply problematic I
don't think Jews should be in a separate
school I don't think Catholic should be
in a separate school raising children
that's to me that segregation it's
partly racial but it's also partly just
religious and in reality there were
separate schools for black people they
just weren't called that that's just the
reality you know and again it's obvious
some churches or churches just for black
people in Toronto and so on so there's a
deeply deeply problematic aspects of
religion and one of the reasons why i
think it's worth talking about the
religious aspects of veganism is to
avoid those problems i think if we're
talking about it openly and thinking
about it openly and we're self-critical
and aware then we won't repeat those
mistakes from history and if we're
kidding ourselves then we will and again
freely i think is an example
a cheetah cares about that more than I
do but I think there are kind of
strangely religious aspects that creep
into what's going on there and even
though it's just a diet book that really
is it's just a diet fad there's nothing
else going on and we all have to ask
these questions what about your career
you know there are people dropping out
of school and change their career paths
because of what freely enumerator tell
them what about your own kids what about
daycare what about a retirement home as
veganism goes on decade by decade you'll
start to get institutional counterparts
it's going to go beyond just having a
restaurant um and I'm up I'm up for the
ride what could I tell I don't know how
crazy it's gonna get things have already
gotten pretty crazy I guess it'll get
crazier but I think those debates are
worth having I think that struggle is
worth fighting whereas you know with
with most these religions I don't I the
difference between Catholicism and
Protestantism can you [ __ ] believe
people used to kill each other over that
for hundreds of years you know friends
that I'd to leave Ireland for that right
right right Ireland Scotland all these
places murdering each other for
centuries over the difference between
Catholicism and Protestantism so you
know do I think it's worthwhile to have
polite debates on YouTube about the
future of veganism absolutely I do yeah
I mean someone said to me you shouldn't
um talk about how another person's
approach to veganism is wrong because
they're good um spreading veganism I'm
like I think it's okay to talk about how
someone's a person veganism is bad or is
not good like so look this is not copy
of your 100% right the other person's
one hundred percent wrong I mean
certainly what you've just said that's a
hundred percent right of course you have
to criticize other people's approaches
to veganism but critique is a positive
part dissent is a positive part of any
political process and it has to be we
got that idea that you shouldn't
criticize another vegan because they're
still supporting veganism that's insane
I definitely think you shouldn't kill
another vegan
I think but even look I don't think you
should even kick them out of the
restaurant you know even restaurants are
open to everybody anybody can go in so
veganism hasn't had that problem yet of
really being like the Catholic Church
where you know if you disagree with me
you're kicked out of the church we
haven't had that problem yet but what we
have had is drifting into worse and
worse forms of stupidity so recently on
my channel I've been drawing attention
to Gary Yourofsky and they're really
insane things he said and one of the
main responses of God from people people
who say to me wow you're so right why
didn't I see that before they'd heard
the same speech you know I like his
speech of its really good speech I never
knew go to the activism her right the
crazy [ __ ] he's done right well and it's
both I mean he's not he's not just one
thing or the other I mean he's all these
things and more I'm a complicated person
to but I I do not think there is any
legitimate argument to say you should
cover up what's wrong with Gary
Yourofsky know if we're going to make
progress will admit the problem and
we'll move on and again I mean compared
to Protestants struggling with Catholics
what we're doing is completely
productive and completely nonviolent and
what have you but it's I I want to keep
it nonviolent keep it intellectually
honest and productive and that's why I
have to address no no here's someone
who's discrediting veganism through you
know promoting violence including you
know quite gory quite corian extreme
statements of violence so you know yeah
that's that's a discourse we absolutely
have to have if we don't want to drift
into complete insanity sometimes I'm
like I don't even want to see I'm vegan
because of those people they're like all
you burn down farms you're like you it's
like it's hard because they give you a
bad reaction when you say you're vegan
but like no I'm a nice vegan no well
look I've gotten that an email from
people I have had a couple of emails
from people who have been vegan for
several years at the beginning that
called themselves vegan then they
stopped and then they wrote to me and
said after watching my youtube channel
they started calling themselves vegan
again because they felt so ashamed
the insane [ __ ] about veganism
basically that's on the internet because
it's not on it's not on the news it's
not on TV it's not in the newspaper so
they felt that people like freely and
Gary Yourofsky had so totally
discredited veganism that they stopped
using the word you know that's that sad
and like we had here in Victoria we had
a political party who were called like
the animal activist party they picked a
really long name it's longer than that
and the newspapers would refer to them
as the vegan party because it's a better
name but they themselves they were these
people who were animal rights people who
stopped using the word vegan who didn't
want you thinkin because they felt was
great I've met a mess unless people
face-to-face you say no no they don't
call themselves vegan anymore even
though they're vegan so yeah there are
there are consequences and I don't I
mean I don't think it's going to have an
impact on you I think I mean it's just
because of your youth and because you're
female I mean it's different for men and
women I think you are going to have to
find your own voice for how you say in a
self-confident way yes I'm vegan period
and I'm not apologizing for it and I'm
not ashamed of it and I'm not crazy and
if you think I'm crazy we'll look at my
eyes and tell me I'm crazy you know if
you think I'm starving to death look at
my eyes and tell me I'm serving that
there there is a way to be relaxed and
self-confident and to present yourself
as vegan and you know it's not
surprising me at all that would be hard
for you at age 18 is a female